Update _index.md (#81)
Altinity/altinityknowledgebase: content/en/upgrade/_index.md

---
aliases:
- /https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/cluster-production-configuration-guide/version-upgrades/

> - /https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/clickhouse-versions/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since that page will still be avaliable and have a link to the proper one - that's seem not needed.

weight: 10
---

# ClickHouse Upgrade Procedure

## Step-by-Step Guide:

Normally the upgrade procedure looks like that:

1) **Pick the release to upgrade**

>    - Check if the version you want to upgrade to is stable. We highly recommend the Altinity ClickHouse Stable Releases.

Reviewer 2: I believe we don't use the concept of "Altinity ClickHouse Stable Releases" anymore.
People get confused and think that "Altinity ClickHouse Stable Releases" are "Altinity Stable Builds"...

2) **Review Release Notes/Changelog**

>    - Compare the release notes/changelog between your current release and the target release.

Reviewer: For Altinity Stable Builds: check the release notes of the release you do upgrade to (if you going from some older release - you may need to read several of them for every release in between: [23.8](https://docs.altinity.com/releasenotes/altinity-stable-release-notes/23.8/), ... older versions ... ) 

For upsream releases check the [changelog](... )

Author: Added

   - Ensure that no configuration changes are needed. Sometimes, you may need to adjust configuration settings for better compatibility.
6) **Perform the Upgrade:**
   - Upgrade the package (note that this does not trigger an automatic restart of the clickhouse-server).
   - Restart the clickhouse-server service.
   - Check health checks and logs.
   - Repeat the process on other nodes.
7) **Start with a “Canary” Update**
   - Mixing several versions in the same cluster can lead to different degradations. It is usually not recommended to have a significant delay between upgrading different nodes in the same cluster.
   - Perform the upgrade on the odd replicas first. Once they are back online, restart the even replicas.
   - Test and verify that everything works properly. Check for any errors in the log files.

> 9) **Upgrade Dev/Staging Environment**

Reviewer: That should be before 6?

weight: 10
---

# ClickHouse Version Upgrade Procedure

## Step-by-Step Guide:

Normally the upgrade procedure looks like that:

1) **Pick the release to upgrade**
   - If you upgrade the existing installation with a lot of legacy queries, please pick mature versions with extended lifetime for upgrade (use [Altinity Stable Builds](https://docs.altinity.com/altinitystablebuilds/) or LTS releases from the upstream).
2) **Review Release Notes/Changelog**
   - Compare the release notes/changelog between your current release and the target release.

>    - For Altinity Stable Builds: check the release notes of the release you do upgrade to (if you going from some older release - you may need to read several of them for every release in between: [23.8](https://docs.altinity.com/releasenotes/altinity-stable-release-notes/23.8/), ... older versions ... )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For Altinity Stable Builds: check the release notes of the release you do upgrade to (if you going from some older release - you may need to read several of them for every release in between (for example to upgrade from 22.3 to 23.8  you will need to check [22.8](https://docs.altinity.com/releasenotes/altinity-stable-release-notes/22.8/),
   [23.3](https://docs.altinity.com/releasenotes/altinity-stable-release-notes/23.3/), 
   [23.8](https://docs.altinity.com/releasenotes/altinity-stable-release-notes/23.8/)  etc.)
```

>    - For upsream releases check the [changelog](https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/compare/81/...?expand=1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For upstream releases check the [changelog](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
```

   - Also ensure that no configuration changes are needed.
       - Sometimes, you may need to adjust configuration settings for better compatibility.
       - or to opt-out some new features you don’t need (maybe needed to to make the downgrade path possible, or to make it possible for 2 versions to work together)
3) **Prepare Upgrade Checklist**
   - Upgrade the package (note that this does not trigger an automatic restart of the clickhouse-server).
   - Restart the clickhouse-server service.
   - Check health checks and logs.
   - Repeat the process on other nodes.
4) **Prepare “Canary” Update Checklist**
   - Mixing several versions in the same cluster can lead to different degradations. It is usually not recommended to have a significant delay between upgrading different nodes in the same cluster.
   - (If needed / depends on use case) stop ingestion into odd replicas / remove them for load-balancer etc.
   - Perform the upgrade on the odd replicas first. Once they are back online, repeat same on the even replicas.
   - Test and verify that everything works properly. Check for any errors in the log files.
5) **Upgrade Dev/Staging Environment**

>    - Follow 6th and 7th checklist and perform Upgrade the Dev/Staging environment. 

Reviewer: 3 & 4?

Also worth to test the downgrade (to have plan B on upgrade failure)
